# Data-Science-Portfolio
Creating portfolio and organizing all activities

Repository containing portfolio of data science projects completed by me for academic, self learning, and hobby purposes. Presented in the form of Jupyter Notebooks

For a more visually pleasant experience for browsing the portfolio, check out 



# Contents
+ Machine Learning
Predicting Boston Housing Prices: A model to predict the value of a given house in the Boston real estate market using various statistical analysis tools. Identified the best price that a client can sell their house utilizing machine learning.
Supervised Learning: Finding Donors for CharityML: Testing out several different supervised learning algorithms to build a model that accurately predicts whether an individual makes more than $50,000, to identify likely donors for a fictional non-profit organisation.
Unsupervised Learning: Creating Customer Segments: Analyzing a dataset containing data on various customers' annual spending amounts (reported in monetary units) of diverse product categories for discovering internal structure, patterns and knowledge.
Reinforcement Learning: Training a Smartcab to Drive: Creating an optimized Q-Learning driving agent that will navigate a Smartcab through its environment towards a goal.
Deep Learning: Digit Sequence Recognition using CNNs: Designing and implementing a Convolutional Neural Network that learns to recognize sequences of digits using synthetic data generated by concatenating images from MNIST.
Tools: scikit-learn, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib, Pygame

Natural Language Processing
3-way Sentiment Analysis for Tweets: 3-way polarity (positive, negative, neutral) classification system for tweets, without using NLTK's sentiment analysis engine.

Cross language Information Retrieval: Cross language information retrieval system (CLIR) which, given a query in German, searches text documents written in English.

Tools: NLTK, scikit

# Data Analysis and Visualisation
## Python
Scalable Walkability Analysis of Melbourne: Analysis of walkability of suburbs in Melbourne, Victoria and its implications.
Titanic Dataset - Exploratory Analysis: Exploratory Analysis of the passengers onboard RMS Titanic using Pandas and Seaborn visualisations.
Stock Market Analysis for Tech Stocks: Analysis of technology stocks including change in price over time, daily returns, and stock behaviour prediction.
2016 US General Election Poll Data Analysis: Very simple analysis of 2016 US General Election Poll data.
911 Calls - Exploratory Analysis: Exploratory Data Analysis of the 911 calls dataset hosted on Kaggle. Demonstrates extraction of useful features from different variables.
Tools: Pandas, Folium, Seaborn and Matplotlib

# Micro Projects:
## Python

ML with Logistic Regression: Using Logistic Regression to predict whether an internet user clicked an ad or not.
ML with K Nearest Neighbours: Using KNN to classify instances from a fake dataset into two target classes, while choosing the best value for K using the elbow method.
ML with Decision Trees and Random Forests: Using Decision Trees and Random Forests to predict whether a lender will pay their loan back. Uses publically available data from LendingClub.com
Movie Recommendations using Recommender Systems: A micro project to build a recommendation system that makes movie recommendations based on user review similarities.



